Lesson Outline
Data wrangling process:

Gather (this lesson)
Assess
Clean.
Gathering data is the first step in data wrangling. Before gathering, we have no data, and after it, we do.

Gathering data varies from project to project. Sometimes you're just given data, or pointed to it like I've done for you throughout this course. Sometimes you need to search for the right data for your project. Sometimes the data you need isn't readily available, and you need to generate it yourself somehow. When you do find your data, it's not unusual for it to be spread across several different sources and file formats, which makes things tricky when organizing the data in your programming environment.

For these reasons and more, gathering can be tricky. In this lesson, which is likely the most technically challenging lesson of the course, you'll acquire the coding skills and general craftiness required to conquer the vast majority of gathering scenarios you'll come across in the future. This is going to be hard sometimes, and that's okay. Stick with it and don't hesitate to reach out for help.

This lesson will be structured as follows:

First, we'll pose a few questions.
Then you'll explore the source of each piece of data we need to answer those questions, each piece from a different source and in a different format.
Then you'll learn about the structure of each file format.
Then you'll learn how to handle that file format using Python and its libraries.
Then you'll actually gather each piece of data to later join together to create your master datase


Assessing your data is the second step in data wrangling. When assessing, you're like a detective at work, inspecting your dataset for two things: data quality issues (i.e. content issues) and lack of tidiness (i.e. structural issues).

Assessing is the precursor to cleaning. You can't clean something that you don't know exists! In this lesson, you'll learn to identify and categorize common data quality and tidiness issues. This lesson is the shortest and most "hands-off" code-wise of all four in the course because of the passive nature of assessing relative to gathering and cleaning. We have tried to include quizzes wherever possible.

This lesson will be structured as follows:

You'll get motivated to assess (and later clean) the dataset for lessons 3 and 4: Phase II clinical trial data that compares the efficacy and safety of a new oral insulin to treat diabetes
You'll learn to distinguish between dirty data and messy data
You'll assess the data visually and programmatically to identify:
Data quality issues
Tidiness issues
You'll learn about data quality dimensions and categorize each of the data quality issues identified above into its appropriate dimension
To begin, I want to introduce you to the dataset you will be assessing in this lesson.



Cleaning your data is the third step in data wrangling. It is where you fix the quality and tidiness issues that you identified in the assess step. In this lesson, you'll clean all of the issues you identified in Lesson 3 using Python and pandas.

This lesson will be structured as follows:

You'll get remotivated (if you aren't already) to clean the dataset for lessons 3 and 4: Phase II clinical trial data that compares the efficacy and safety of a new oral insulin to treat diabetes to injectable insulin
You'll learn about the data cleaning process: defining, coding, and testing
You'll address the missing data first (and learn why it is usually important to address these completeness issues first)
You'll tackle the tidiness issues next (and learn why this is usually the next logical step)
And finally, you'll clean up the quality issues
This lesson will consist primarily of Jupyter Notebooks, of which there will be two types: one quiz notebook that you'll work with throughout the whole lesson (i.e. your work will carry over from page to page) and three solution notebooks. I'll pop in and out to introduce the larger conceptual bits.

You will leverage the most common cleaning functions and methods in the pandas library to clean the nineteen quality issues and four tidiness issues identified in Lesson 3. Given your pandas experience and that this isn't a course on pandas, these functions and methods won't be covered in detail. Regardless, with this experience and your research and documentation skills, you can be confident that leaving this course you'll be able to clean any form of dirty and/or messy data that comes your way in the future.

NEXT
