White wine

My Data set consist of 4898 white wines with 11 variables
Data fields
Input variables (based on physicochemical tests): 
1 - fixed acidity 
2 - volatile acidity 
3 - citric acid 
4 - residual sugar 
5 - chlorides 
6 - free sulfur dioxide 
7 - total sulfur dioxide 
8 - density 
9 - pH 
10 - sulphates 
11 - alcohol


Output variable (based on sensory data): 
12 - quality (score between 0 and 10)

Other:

13 - id (unique ID for each sample, needed for submission)
#Reflection
The white wine data set contains information on almost 4898 white wines with 11 variables. I started by understanding the individual variables in the data set, and then I explored interesting questions and leads as I continued to make observations on plots. Eventually, I explored the quality of wine across many variables and created a linear model to predict quality of alcohol.

This tidy data set contains 4,898 white wines with 11 variables on quantifying the chemical properties of each wine. At least 3 wine experts rated the quality of each wine, providing a rating between 0 (very bad) and 10 (very excellent).
The main features in the data set are alcohole and quality I’d like to determine which ingredient are best for predicting the quality of a wine I suspect alcohol and some combination of the other variables can be used to build a predictive model to quality of wine


(worst) —————-> (best)
Quality:3,4,5,6,7,8,9 Its a continuous number


There was a clear trend between the quality of a wine and its alcohol percentage. I was surprised that depth or table did not have a strong positive correlation with price, but these variables are likely to be represented by categorical variables: color, cut, and clarity. I struggled understanding the decrease in median price as the level of cut and clarity improved, but this became more clear when I realized that most of the data contained average alcohol . For the linear model, all wines were included since information on price, carat, color, clarity, and cut were available for all the wines. After transforming price to log scale and taking the cube root of carat, the model was able to account for 98.4% of the variance in the dataset.

Some limitations of this model include the source of the data.Given the data set 
has only 4898 wines data availabel.Which is not very large.These prediction might get wrong.Since it is not population data.To Investigate the data further I would like to gather much more data.I will train the data .I would like to analyze the data which factor describes more quality of wine.I would like to see which combination of ingriedents customers like more.
